---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Approaching the End
---

## Lucide Progress
------

As the end approaches, I am immensely proud of my teams accomplishments regarding Lucide. Even though we have not been able to complete a single large contribution as planned due to time and knowledge constraints we have made a good use of our time nonetheless.

<!--more-->

We have focused on making smaller but nevertheless worthy contributions. Although we originally started by making icons we have moved to diversify. We have also been able to make contributions focused on website development issues everything from grammar consistency, to 404 errors, to making already present features work as intended. Most recently, we made a contribution that fixed a github checks issue after noticing that our pull requests were failing a specific lint check which involved every single PR up till now. 

We have also made an effort to engage positively in the community. This involves keeping an active eye on issues we can advise on as well as asking questions we feel could aid the overall project. I would say we succeeded in getting our names out there as reliable devoted developers especially considering we have quite a few pull requests that have been merged.

### Plans for Presentation
------

We plan to make this presentation legible, informative, and fun as we engage our peers in the story of our journey. We do not consider our time at Lucide as an assignment but as a valuable trial in learning how to develop slongside others. We would like that to reflect in our presentation.

We plan to meet at least twice this week to focuse on getting our presentation audience ready. Rehearsing, compliling screenshots, and crafting the perfect powerpoint to showcase our talents in our top priotity in the coming week.

### Open Source in business and film
------

This past week I was able to watch several youtube videos focused on open source software developments role in business but non was as interesting to me than the one that spoke of open source in film. As an undergraduate at NYU i briefly considering getting a minor in film and have had the pleasure of attending a few film classes. I thought that the way the speakers described the industry with such passion was so interesting in contrast to other videos. I have as a result looked into the Academy Software Foundation and signed up for their DEV DAYS, a day long event in which open source developers contribute to a project of theirs. i am excited to attend and grateful I had my eyes opened to the different opportunities involving open source software development.