---
layout: post
title: Week 15 - Connections
---

## Lucide reflection
------

I thought that our presentation on Lucide went really well. I was very nervous at first and spoke a little too quickly trying to disguise my stutter but I believe my groupmates more than made up for it. We seemed to finish on time and had time to answer a few questions. 
<!--more-->
Our presentation did differ from others in that we seemed to focus more on describing contributions but I am taking this as a learning experience and hope to apply my knowledge again for other presentations.


## Autogen
------

I thoroughly enjoyed the Autogen presentation because I feel like they allowed the audience to get an in-depth view of their challenges. They were very clear about some of their struggles with getting some PRs merged and I really appreciate their transparency.

To celebrate their wins, I thought they did an amazing job with diversifying their contributions to include both front-end and backend work. I appreciate how difficult it must have been to work of issues regarding the Autogen chatbot as I know that coming from an unfamiliarity with them, it is an interesting adjustment and I think they excelled.


## Oppia 1
------

There were a couple of things that I liked about the Oppia presentation including their style of presenting with them taking turns very effectively. The thing that struck me the most about their contributions were actually their efforts to fix the testing system that Oppia was using. During my project we also faced a failing check but nothing as extreme as having PRs cancelled entirely for the sake of it. Its important to notice and fix issues that affect contributors especially ones that may demoralize first timers.

## Oppia 3
------
The word of the day for this group is definitely adaptability. I emphasize with them on their issues on getting the development environment set up. It seems that the other group who had Oppia also ad problems with their approach to the builds. I admired how they were able to recognize there was a needed shift and made that transition to focusing more on content creation and contributions.

## Mattermost
------

I really liked how in the presentation for mattermost they used ios screenshots skillfully and displayed them in phones, its a great use of visual aids. As far as contributions I liked how they at least attempted to do some significant UI enhancements even if they didn't all get merged because I can imagine that working with things like ios simulators is a new experience for them but I do think that those skills will transfer over to over projects that involve ios, Go, etc.


## The Odin Project
------


I think that this team did an excellent job working on The Odin Project because, as they said, it is a very mature project meaning theres not a lot of room for adding new features and there are dedicated teams to solving certain types of issues. I was surprised on how the maintainers allowed certain issues to go stale instead of closing them. There did seem to be a lot of enthusiasm from the community for one person in the group which showed that the group given more time could contribute even more meaningfully in the future if they wished.