---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Team Progress & Reflections
---

## Lucide Progress
------

My team has made a lot of progress on our presentation. We now have 90% of our slides made and ready to go.

<!--more-->
One thing that we are working on is practicing and rehearsing for our big day. After going through a dry run today we have consolidated some od our slides in order to save time. As far as contributions go, I believe that today was our last day where we made any to Lucide. This is believed to be necessary so we can adequately focus on preparing to present.


### Preswald Reflection
------
After seeing the presentation for Preswald I was extremely impressed by how much work they have gotten done this semester. It seemed that due to the youthful nature of the project they were able to add contributions in the form of adding features was a direct contrast to my experience at Lucide. 

My favorite contribution for their project was that of the debugger. I do not think that I would have been able to implement that myself. I was also inspired by their work on the chatbot feature and I admired how even though they had setbacks with it, they adapted by looking into what already existed in the codebase and worked based off that.

another thing i liked was their sense of teamwork, splitting into groups of two was truly the best decision for them and its admirable they made that change early on.

### Huggingface Reflection
------

I thought the Huggingface project was also very interesting. Because I have no previous experience with AI/ML and transformers, i myself would have had a hard time contributing. However, this group clearly embraced their own knowledge to make valuable contributions.

I liked that they included a visual aid detailing their workflow as it reminded me of my own experiences with Lucide. Even their slide about their time based strategy would be helpful to educate new contributors. I was a bit surprised by the amount of technical information they included in their presentation but I think it did help convey how challenging the types of issues they chose turned out to be.
