---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Speaker Reflections
---


## Speakers
------

I recently had the privilege of attending a presentation by Nick Vidal from OSI, or the [open source initiative](https://opensource.org/ai). OSI, is the authority that defines open source and it is recognized globally. Following that, OSI currently provides the definition of open source software. Nick Vidal was able to inform me more about the how, why, and what of open source AI.

<!--more-->

I was also hoping to attend the presentation featuring Olivier Poupeney from FINOS, or [Fintech Open Source Foundation](https://www.finos.org/) which provides open source solutions for financial services. Unfortunately, due to a conflict the presentation has been postponed but in the meantime I have enjoyed learning more about open source applicability in the financial industry.


### Open Source AI
------

I especially enjoyed Nick Vidal's presentation because I was previously unaware that open source AI needed a formal definition in order to mitigate bias, ensure accountability, and help keep AI safe.

Vidal also discussed how a formal definition for open source AI helps inform government regulations as Artificial Intelligence has begun to grow more popular. I was also surprised by the global reach that OSI seems to have, as they attend conferences in several different continents. I know that companies such as openAI have changed their policies to make their code closed however, I find myself very hopeful for the future of open source AI because of the work that OSI is doing in order to educate and advocate for safe practices.

