---
layout: post
title: Week 16 - Final days
---

### Final Presentations
------
I had a wonderful time hearing about the other projects today and wanted to share my thoughts and feedback. Everyone did a wonderful job of contributing as much as they could to their respective projects and I can't wait to see hopefully more of everyone contributing in the future.
<!--more-->

### Oppia 6
------

Something I really admired about Oppia 6 is how they were so willing to reach out and ask for help. They seemed to be in constant communication with the maintainers. Even though they may have been overwhelmed at times they would first research how to resolve errors, then reach out to the contributors to propose solutions, then act based on that. That type of workflow works well because while you allow yourself to gain more knowledge of the project it also shows you know how to utilize your best resource which in this case is the community.


### Gleam
------

Gleam is such an interesting project.Because it is such a recent project (circa 2024) there are a lot of small bugs, its very fast-paced, and open to contributions making it seem like a great project for new contributions. However, it is more complicated than it seems with build, setup issues, and having to delve so deeply into an unfamiliar approach to programming languages. 

AMong contributions such as updating instructions,creating tests, and deleting unnecessary files my favorite contribution was to the language server. Adding autocomplete and displaying type information to a new language is such a cool feature that requires a lot of work to know how to implement and shows a familiarity of the language itself.

### Open Food Facts
------

I emphasize a lot with Open Food Facts because after seeing their screenshots of discussions with the community, there seems to be a lot of external problems that opposed them being able to contribute as much as they wanted to. Communication issues between and among maintainers and reviewers can cause an otherwise great project to become a hassle to work with and this is a great example of that. Despite their justified frustration, they were able to transfer some of their previous knowledge and apply it to flutter. projects such as this one can dissuade future open source contributors so I think the project is due for a much needed updated code of conduct and some organization amongst the community so it has clear objectives and perhaps a clear delegation of duties as Andy mentioned.